.. Pyteen documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Jul 27 20:52:09 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Pyteen
======

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

This is a tiny collection of self-contained, short Python code snippets that are (1) all tested and validated, (2) easy to contribute to, and (3) simple to reuse.

Code size
---------

The main aspect here is *code size*, still counted in lines of lines (LOC).
This project started with a strict limit of ten lines of code because in Python this can already be enough to solve some useful little tasks, and, unsurpringly, the first chosen project name was "tenliners".
But of course, not all code lines are equally useful or effective, which is why it makes little sense to count comments or docstrings or empty lines (non-code).
In fact, you only really care about "effective code", code that has the most effect (or value) to solve your task or demonstrate something.
Please find more details about *effective code* below.

Now the number ten is somewhat arbitrary (why not 11?) and it can be hard or impossible to express some interesting things with ten or less lines even in Python.
Therefore "ten" was stretched a bit into "teen" leading to the name "Pyteen" and, hence, a max. limit of 19 lines of effective code.
Let's see where that goes!

Effective code
--------------

Apart from comments or docstrings or empty lines there is also very little effect in lines with only opening or closing brackets, braces or parentheses which are often typed manually to make data structures more readable, but also generated by code formatting tools like *Black*.
The same holds with imports which only enable you to use some modules.
What is left is code that really *does* something when it executes.
And this is what Pyteen wants to measure.

Example
.......

.. literalinclude:: ../pyteen/snippets/algorithms/sieve_eratosthenes.py
   :language: python
   :emphasize-lines: 1,7-8,10,12-15,17-
   :linenos:
   :caption: "Sieve of Eratosthenes" code with 11 effective lines highlighted
